Whats new 4.11 blog - WIP (#1330)
apache/camel-website: content/blog/2025/04/camel411-whatsnew/index.md

---
title: "Apache Camel 4.11 What's New"
date: 2025-04-12
authors: [davsclaus, squakez, croway]
categories: ["Releases"]
preview: Details of what we have done in the Camel 4.11 release.
---

Apache Camel 4.11 has just been [released](/blog/2025/04/RELEASE-4.11.0/).

This release introduces a set of new features and noticeable improvements that we will cover in this blog post.

## Camel Core

The component _verifier extension_ has been deprecated. This functionality has not been in use for many years,

> and we will start to deprecate more of these un-used features in camel-core going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and we will start to deprecate more of these unused features in camel-core going forward.
```

### Recipient List, Split and Multicast EIP

In parallel processing mode, you can also enable `synchronous=true` to force these EIPs to process
the sub-tasks using the upper bounds of the thread-pool. If using `synchronous=false` then Camel
will allow its reactive routing engine to use as many threads as possible, which may be available
due to sub-tasks using other thread-pools such as `CompletableFuture.runAsync` or others.

> Setting `synchronous=true` is the same behaviour is in Camel 2 which did not have the reactive routing engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting `synchronous=true` is the same behavior as in Camel 2 which did not have the reactive routing engine.
```

can easily write unit tests without having to use Kafka but let it be _stubbed_ by Camel and act
as an internal message queue (ala camel-seda).

We have also made it easier to turn off auto-starting specific routes, using the new `AutoStartupExcludePattern` option (or `@@AutoStartupExclude` annotation).
This allows to exclude routes (by pattern) so you can write unit tests  and fully control which routes are included and started in the tests.

## Camel Spring Boot

The `camel-spring-boot` is upgraded to latest Spring Boot 3.4.4 release.

### Platform HTTP Spring Security integration

The Async Camel Spring Boot Platform HTTP now supports `DelegatingSecurityContextAsyncTaskExecutor` and follows Spring Boot best practices for security context propagation. This enhancement allows security-related information, such as the Principal, to be properly maintained across asynchronous operations.
Similar to Spring Boot @Async methods, to propagate security related information, users can just configure a `DelegatingSecurityContextAsyncTaskExecutor` Bean.

## Miscellaneous

Upgraded many third-party dependencies to the latest releases at the time of release.

> The `camel-bean` component has been improved to better support invoking methods with varargs parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel-bean` component has been improved to better support invoking methods with varargs parameters.
```

The file based components (`camel-file`, `camel-ftp`, `camel-azure-files`, and `camel-smb`) now better support dynamic polling using `poll` or `pollEnrich` EIPs with dynamic
computed endpoint, such as `fileName` by using `PollDynamicAware` that is specially optimized for these use-cases.

> The `camel-smb` component now also has the `autoCreate` option to let Camel automatic create non-existing starting directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel-smb` component now also has the `autoCreate` option to let Camel automatically create a non-existing starting directory.
```

The `camel-http` component has more improvements in regards to OAuth2 support.

The `camel-micrometer` component has a new `Gauge` which exposes information about the runtime running the Camel application:

```
# TYPE app_info gauge
app_info{camel_context="camel-1",camel_runtime_provider="Spring-Boot",camel_runtime_version="3.4.3",camel_version="4.10.2"} 1
```

> In `camel-kafka` we added the option `topicMustExists` to tell Camel to check whether a given topic exist or not on startup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `camel-kafka` we added the option `topicMustExists` to tell Camel to check whether a given topic exists on startup.
```

This can be used to ensure Camel will only consume from existing topics, and otherwise fail if an expected topic does not exists in the broker.

Added `list` and `map` functions to simple language so you can more easily create list/map objects.

> The `camel-bom` Maven BOM no longer include a hugh google-bom that could cause builds to be much slower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `camel-bom` Maven BOM no longer includes a huge google-bom that could cause builds to be much slower.
```

## New Components

We have added a few new components:

- `camel-dfdl` - Transforms fixed format data such as EDI message from/to XML using a Data Format Description Language (DFDL).
- `ibm-secrets-manager` - Manage secrets in IBM Secrets Manager Service
- `camel-oauth` - Camel OAuth

> - `camel-opentelemetry2`  - Implementation of Camel Opentelemetry based on the Camel Telemetry spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `camel-opentelemetry2`  - Implementation of Camel OpenTelemetry based on the Camel Telemetry spec
```

- `camel-telemetry` - Distributed telemetry common interfaces
- `camel-telemetry-dev` - Basic implementation of Camel Telemetry useful for development purposes

## Upgrading

Make sure to read the [upgrade guide](/manual/camel-4x-upgrade-guide-4_11.html) if you are upgrading from a previous Camel version.

If you are upgrading from, for example, 4.4 to 4.8, then make sure to follow the upgrade guides for each release in-between, i.e.
4.4 -> 4.5, 4.5 -> 4.6, and so forth.

The Camel Upgrade Recipes tool can also be used to automate upgrading.
See more at: https://github.com/apache/camel-upgrade-recipes

## Release Notes

> You can find more information about this release in the list of JIRA tickets resolved in the release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find additional information about this release in the list of resolved JIRA tickets:
```
